\section {REVIEW}

\newcommand{\RESOLUTION}[1]{\color{red}\begin{itemize} \item Resolution: #1\end{itemize}\color{black}}

\newcommand{\OK}[1]{\color{blue}\begin{itemize} \item Resolution: #1\end{itemize}\color{black}}


\subsection{Reviewer 1}

This work is a survey of resource scheduling researches in cloud
computing area. The authors design a resource scheduling taxonomy from
their experience in utilizing and managing multi-cloud environments.


As an academic paper, rather than a technical report, the
professionalism and rigor of language needs to be improved. The
authors should check their sentences in this work carefully and make
clearer and correct expressions. 

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

\subsubsection{1. Abstract:}

The authors should clearly illustrate the brief
contributions of this work. In "It justifies our model and provides an
overview of existing scheduling techniques in cloud computing.‚Äù, the
mentions about "our model" is confusing for readers to understand the
intent of this paper.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsubsection{2. Introduction:}

As mentioned in the Abstract part, the authors should
make their descriptions more professional and logical. In particular,
they should **highlight their own** contributions clearly.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

\subsubsection{3. General Scheduling Terminology for Clouds:}

In my own opinion, it is
not necessary to use a section to put the terminologies used in a
paper. A table can be used to summarize the terminologies that you
should explain. Also, a present of the definition such as "Cloud
Resource: Is a resource offered......" is not professional and looks
strange.

\RESOLUTION{We experimented with tables to place definitions in
it, but found it did not increase readability. of the
paper as the table would have been over multiple pages.
Hence we left the definitions in the main text.}


4. The structure of Sec.3 is confusing. The first paragraph of this
section should give readers a clear guide about what they are gonging
to read.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsection{Reviewer 2}

\subsubsection{Summary}

This paper presents a taxonomy to approach resource scheduling from a
perspective that can be seen as a standard to be followed when
implementing resource scheduling frameworks. This taxonomy takes into
account the different layers of infrastructure on which it is possible
to deploy and schedule workloads, several metrics that can guide such
scheduling decision and finally, the challenges of resource scheduling
from different point of views. Containers and functions are added to
the study which is of interest. An extensive literature review is also
presented.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsubsection{Content Section 2}

+ Section 2, which introduces the terminology later used throughout
the paper, may be too brief for the paper's own sake. Only a handful
of terms are described while I believe many others that the reader may
need may be left out. For example, although the paper centers on
schedulers and its policies to implement applications on the Cloud,
neither a basic description of what a scheduler is nor a description
of the policy concept are given. Throughout the paper several
schedulers as several different policies are presented, thus, I think
it would be interesting to make the distinction between scheduler and
scheduler's policy with a definition.




\RESOLUTION{TBD. use more definitions such as scheduler and scheduler policy. There may be others}


\subsubsection{Content Section 3}

+ Regarding Section 3, I believe that a single big topic, "scheduling"
and two subtopics, 1) "taxonomies applied to Cloud" and 2) "Cloud
challenges", have been mixed on this Section with no clear connection
which overall leads to confusion to the reader. While Subsections 1
and 3 describe scheduling design and models, several taxonomies are
introduced in Subsections 2,7 and 8 and challenges are introduced in
Subsections 4, 5 and 6. Although Subsection 4 is titled as "Taxonomy
of Challenges in Cloud Scheduling", I believe it is not correct to
describe as a taxonomy a set of challenges, as they do not possess any
hierarchy among themselves that allows to build such 'taxa'. This is
not the case with, for example, Subsection 7, where scheduling unit
are presented in a hierarchical manner. Nevertheless, for this latter
Subsection I would re-assess the resource unit taxonomy presented. The
"Deployment" unit is defined by using the term Job, which belongs to
another classification. In a similar manner, the unit 'Scheduler' is
defined as a process, thus, a running program and because of this, if
considered, it should not be described as a resource but rather as a
task (or this may even be the definition lacking in Section 2). For
this Section I recommend a better organization, possibly by even
creating different Sections for each topic as they can be addressed
separately.

\RESOLUTION{TBD. IS THIS ADDRESSED BY US?}


\subsubsection{Content use of theory}

+ Both Sections 2 and 3 lay some theoretical ground work that is very
slightly used afterwards in the rest of the paper to guide the reader
or contrast the literature reviews presented.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsubsection{Content In Section 4:}

\paragraph{Subsection 4.1}

Reference 15 is completely unrelated to the citation context.

\OK{Reference 15 is cited in Table 1}

\paragraph{Subsection 4.2.1}

reference 22 is missing in its respective table
(Table 2), even though it is an algorithm.

\OK{Reference 22 has been added to Table 2}

\paragraph{Subsection 4.4}

section may be unrelated to the paper's topic or may address
too many topics, some of which may be unrelated. One of the topics are
the HPC services and bare-metal provisioning offered by Cloud
providers, both of which may rely on simple queue schedulers or the
user's own infrastructure deployment choice, respectively, with little
room for resource scheduling algorithms. Another topic is the Cloud
but as an extension of HPC systems for bursting. Finally both using
HPC infrastructure to run containers or otherwise Cloud platforms such
as Hadoop may be unrelated to any scheduling algorithm study overall.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

\paragraph{Subsection 4.5}

Section 4.5 which refers to workflows, uses references that may
be too old (they range from 2000 to 2010) for the reader's interest.
This is further supported by the fact that many of the references are
for workflows on the Grid, while this paper tries to address
scheduling for the newest technologies and environments such as
containers and FaaS in the Cloud. There has to be more recent research
which addresses workflows, the Cloud, containers, FaaS....

\RESOLUTION{TBD. Gregor agrees to this. Many references are really 
quite old and grid related and not cloud related.}


\paragraph{Subsection 4.6}

Subsection 4.6 is centered around the topic of Cloud pricing and the
comparison of different Cloud provider models. The scheduling of
instances is addressed but such scheduling is reduced to simple
operations of starting and stooping instances or whole services, which
may not be of interest to the reader.

\RESOLUTION{TBD. Needs to address different pricing, storage, 
            spot pricing, function as a service.}

\paragraph{Section 5}

+ In the conclusions in Section 5, I find some of the presented
lessons as unrelated to the paper's work. 

Both the "Analytics
Services" and the "Edge Computing" lessons belong more as part of a
future work section, as they have not been addressed anywhere in the
paper. 

\RESOLUTION{TBD. Move this into a future work section}

In other lessons such as "More than VM scheduling" or
"integration for data", technologies like FaaS or Big Data are
mentioned even though the scheduling aspects for both have been only
slightly described. Considering that the addition of FaaS to the Cloud
scheduling state of the art is one of the paper's selling points, more
citations describing algorithms or policies for FaaS would be
appreciated, mainly in Subsection 4.8. 

\RESOLUTION{TBD. We need more on FAAS scheduling.}

In regards to Big Data and its
'management of data', to support this lesson a sort of data-based
scheduling study would need to be mentioned, according to Figure 5
"Data-based scheduling model" and in accordance to the sections
devoted to "energy aware" or "network aware".

\RESOLUTION{TBD. add data aware scheduling}



\subsubsection{Language}

English should be greatly improved for this paper as numerous errors
are present (e.g., "distingtion", "and this play a significant roll")
as well as grammatically incorrect or ambiguous sentences and
misleading punctuation.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsubsection{Layout, figures and tables}

+ There are multiple broken references to figures and tables.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

+ Figure 3 is not properly displayed in the printed form. Although in
the digital form it may be more easy to analyze, I would still
recommend an alternative palette of colours, font size or a different
format of mindmap. The main problem overall is the fact that the
labels are difficult to read due to the fontsize and strong background
colours.



\OK{Figure 3 color scheme has been replaced to black font on
    light colors for easier readability. The figure has also
    been increased in size.}


\OK{In addition to Figure 3, we also increased the size for
    Figure 9 for better readability.}

+ Due to the content length some tables are difficult to read as the
font sizes are scaled down and end up being too small for a
comfortable reading. If all the table's content is maintained, I would
suggest displaying the tables in a landscape mode using a whole page.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

+ The citations inside the tables are not ordered making it difficult
to correlate the citations in the text (ordered) to the ones in the
table (unordered).

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

+ Table 9 is not referenced in the paper and I can not place where it
could be.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

+ In Section 4.2 there is a broken Figure reference that I deem could
be important. I do not know if the Figure is missing or if it is any
of the ones referenced previous to that section, as there are no more
Figures in the rest of the paper. At any rate I can not imagine which
figure would it be.

\RESOLUTION{TBD. This is now in figure 7. we need to clarify the text to make sure we point to it.}

+ In Table 1 reference number 21 is misplaced, it belongs to and it is
placed on Table 2.

\OK{Refernce 21 has been moved to the correct table.}

+ Throughout all the tables a normalization of terms and style would
be needed (e.g., use of lower and upper case indistinctly, same terms
written in different way like DC Sim and DCSim,
Energy based and
Energy-based)

\OK{DCSim, Energy-based = > Energy-aware}

\RESOLUTION{TBD. Find other inconsistencies.}


\subsubsection{References}

+ References 103/115, and 102/112 may be analogous

\OK{Although they were pinting for the section to concrete different aspect, they are still part of the same manual,
so instead of pointing to the sections, we jsut point now to the product/manual}

+ References with typos that I detected: 31, 149

\OK{Fixed refernces 31, 149}

+ Broken references I detected: 11, 145

\RESOLUTION{TBD. 11, is gregors whitepaper}

\OK{145}

+ References 19, 27, 28, 42, 61, 68 are missing the year

\OK{Years were added to. However as we added new refernces,
the numbers are not the same in the new version.  19, 27,
28,
42,
61,
68}

\OK{In addition we went through all publications and checked the year}

+ Reference 66 is completely unrelated to the paper, topic or even
knowledge area.

\OK{Refernce 66 has been removed}


\section{Reviewer 3}

\subsubsection{Major Comments:}

I would like to see the inclusion of the most popular workloads,
benchmarks, simulation tools used by the researchers while
implementing different scheduling policy in Cloud. Example TPC-H,
BigDataBench, AMPLab Big data benchmark, Google Cluster traces,
CloudSim etc.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

It would be great to have a separate section only describing different
algorithmic approaches used in scheduling. The papers shown in
different tables to cover various aspects, objectives of scheduling
algorithms is sufficient already. However, there should be a clear
discussion on when to use what algorithms. For example, the authors
can start from linear programming models and how it is used to solve
the scheduling problems, how the computational complexity involved in
finding optimal solution led the researchers to use heuristic-based
approaches, how meta-heuristics can improve the result, when we should
use data-driven approaches and use prediction models in conjunction
with scheduling for better resource management, how some algorithms
might become system-specific and we need to tune it for every system,
how AI can aid in this situation and automate the scheduling process
(future direction).

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

There should be a separate challenges and future directions section
showing the open challenges, and future research directions for
researchers.

\RESOLUTION{TBD. Add two different sections.}

I really missed some of the promising research done recently which use
AI-based approaches for scheduling. I think like many other domains,
research in resource management and scheduling in the cloud is also
heading towards AI. For example, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DeepRL)
based approaches can automatically learn to schedule more efficiently
and can also adapt to any system changes. As we have more compute
resources available now-a-days, both simulation and real experimental
approaches can use AI based approaches. Some good papers to study and
include:


DRL-cloud: Deep reinforcement learning-based resource provisioning and
task scheduling for cloud service providers by Mingxi Cheng.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

Learning Scheduling Algorithms for Data Processing Clusters by Hongzi Mao

\RESOLUTION{TBD}


\subsubsection{Minor Comments:}

In section 2, terminologies such as task scheduling, job scheduling,
application scheduling should be discussed to provide the user with a
clear understanding of the key concepts before going need. 

\RESOLUTION{TBD. terminology. Add task scheduling, job scheduling,
application scheduling}

From the
cloud perspective, it is often very confusing to define what level of
scheduling is actually used in research (job, task or resource, VM,
physical host?). Perhaps, the author can try to define these terms
from their own experience.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

This paper needs to be carefully revised to fix all the grammatical
mistakes or typos.

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

Missing figure references in many cases: 3.3, 4.2, 4.2.1

\RESOLUTION{TBD}

